# Machine Learning Workshop
Machine learning workshop given at the 2017 IGGI conference.

## Data
Download the data from 
[here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0By-183t4X500eVV3eG5UUFJUcUk?usp=sharing). The files `dataset_c4*.pkl` are Connect Four data files generated by players of different strengths. You only need one of them -- I recomment `dataset_c4.pkl`.

The files are compressed to save space, but what they contain is essentially a list of dictionaries that looks something like this:

```
[
  {
    "own_pieces": [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
    "opponent_pieces": [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
    "move": 4,
    "own_win": 0,
    "opponent_win": 1
  },
  ...
  {
    "own_pieces": [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
    "opponent_pieces": [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0],
    "move": 3,
    "own_win": 1,
    "opponent_win": 0
  }
]
```

`own_pieces` is a list representing the board (flattened) and has a 1 in spaces where the current player has a piece, and 0 in all other spaces.

`opponent_pieces` is the same but for the opponent.

`move` is the move that was made by the current player. This move is not reflected in `own_pieces` and `opponent_pieces`. In Connect Four, there are seven possible moves assuming that none of the columns are filled. `move` is therefore an integer in the range [0,6]. The data provider changes this to a one-hot encoding, e.g. `3` becomes `[0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0]`.

`own_win` is 1 if the current player went on to win the game, and 0 if not.

`opponent_win` is the same but for the opponent.

## TensorFlow installation instructions
Installation instructions can be found in the `tf_install/` directory, or on
[tensorflow.org](https://www.tensorflow.org).

### Windows
Python 3 installer included in `tf_install/python/`. Then run the commands in
`windows.bat`.

### Mac OS
Install Python 3 if you don't have it already. The included script will set up
a virtualenv virtual environment. Activate it by running
```
source ./tf/bin/activate
```
and then run the second script to install TensorFlow.

### Linux
The included script will download and install Python 3 and set up a virtualenv
virtual environment. Activate it by running
```
source ./tf/bin/activate
```
and then run the second script to install TensorFlow.
